In this video, I'm
going to show you
how you can use the
probability matrix,
the one that you learned
in the previous video.
I'll show you how you
can use it to create
a path so that you can assign
a parts of speech
tag to every word.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
The backward pass is the last of
three steps of the
Viterbi algorithm,
where you will retrieve the
most likely sequence of
parts of speech tags for your
given sequence of words.
By now, you've populated
the matrices C and D.
Now you just have
to extract the path
through your graph
from the matrix D,
which represents the sequence of
hidden states that's most
likely generated our sequence
where at one all
the way towards K.
First calculate the index
of the entry C_i,K with
the highest probability
in the last column
of C. The probability
at this index is
the probability of the
most likely sequence of
hidden states generating the
given sequence of words.
You use this index as to
traverse backwards through
the matrix D to reconstruct
the sequence of parts
of speech tags.
First, calculate the
index of the entry
CIK with the highest probability
in the last column of C.
The probability at this
index is the probability of
the most likely sequence of
hidden states generating the
given sequence of words.
You use this index s to
traverse backwards through
the matrix D to reconstruct
the sequence of parts
of speech tags.
Let's look at a simple
example for a matrix D. For
a model with four states and
a given word sequence
of length five.
The matrix D stores
all the labels
of the hidden states you've
traversed in the forward path.
If you're going back
through the states,
starting with the path that
has the highest probability,
you effectively got the
most likely sequence of
hidden states or
parts of speech tags.
You start by looking up
the entry with the
highest probability in
the last row of the matrix C and
extract the index
s of that entry.
Let's look at the matrix C with
some probabilities
you might have
computed in the forward pass.
You now want to calculate
the index s of the entry
in the last row of C which
has the highest probability.
The entry with the
highest probability is
the first one with 0.01.
Written as a formula,
s is the argmax i of C_i,K,
which in this case
is equal to 1.
That index represents the
last hidden state you
traversed when you
observe the word W_5.
The most likely state of word
W_5 is the t_1 parts
of speech tag.
You add t_1 to the end of
the sequence and look
up the next index in D,
which tells you
where you came from.
This next index is three.
Now move on to the fourth
word in the sequence,
which means you're now looking
at the fourth column in
the matrix D. To
decide which row of
the matrix to look at,
recall that in matrix D,
column 5, the top row
holds the value three,
where three represents
the previous state
with the highest probability,
so t_3 is the most likely
state for word number 4.
You would associate
word number 4,
with the state number 3,
which is the parts of
speech labeled number 3.
You can keep walking
left to each column of
the matrix D. Since the
value stored in column 4,
row 3 is the number 1,
you can assign the
parts of speech tag,
t_1 to the previous
word, word number 3.
Also, when you go
left to column 3,
you will look for row 1,
representing state 1,
which you see
highlighted in green.
The value stored in column 3,
row 1 is three.
This means that the
previous word has parts of
speech tag number 3
associated with it.
So associated word number 2
with parts of speech tag 3.
Now walk left one column
in the matrix to column 2.
Since the value stored in
the green cell in
column 3 is three,
go to row 3 of column 2.
In column 2, the value
stored in row 3 is two.
This means that for word 1,
the most likely state is
parts of speech tag number 2.
The algorithm stops as you
have arrived at the start token
with the value stored in
the second row of the
first column being zero.
The sequence of t, i that
you have recovered in
the backward pass
is the sequence of
parts of speech tags with
the highest probability.
Before you go, there are
two implementations specific
issues to be aware of.
When you implement
the Viterbi algorithm
in the programming assignments,
be careful with the indices.
As list or matrix indices in
Python starts with
zero instead of one.
Another implementation
specific issue is when you
multiply many very small
numbers like probabilities,
this will lead to
numerical issues.
You should use log
probabilities instead,
where numbers are summed
instead of multiplying.
Don't worry. I'll be
revisiting this concept
later in the course.
Congratulations on
finishing this week.
You now know about
the Viterbi algorithm
and specifically,
you've used this for
part-of-speech tagging.
You can use part-of-speech
tagging in search,
in machine translation,
in speech recognition,
and also in parsing.
Next week you're going to learn
about a different type of task,
which is known as
n-gram language models.